Welcome back.
Marvellous God people.
OK.
We're going to deal with something a little bit more complicated today.
Let's talk about Jason and the file command.
Now that sounds like a great name for an 80s action movie or bad but it's not Jason is javascript object
notation to talk about.
That means in a moment.
First why do we want to do this.
Well here's what our current plan looks like.
We need to get the code ready for the C sharp treatment.
Ben is about to take our script and rewrite it and C sharp but he's going to have a problem.
All of our story information you know the things with all the props and everything else that that template
dictionary with made.
That's all in our script.
That means if he wants to use it he has to copy and paste it into his script.
Now let's imagine we're making a much bigger project a huge RPG and he's doing quests and I'm doing
dialogue and and Michael is doing someone else's dialogue and Recces doing some other Quest and Sam
is doing something else.
We can't have a situation where I need to go into everybody else's script and copy and paste stuff into
mine every time I wanna make a change.
We need a way to separate the script from the human readable content write descriptions stories dialogue.
This should all be in a different file.
So today we're going to learn what Jason is.
We're going to move the story information out of the script.
I am going to move the other text out of the script to look let's really apply some best practices here.
Quick aside I pronounce this word Jason that's how I've always heard it pronounced.
Some people don't.
That's cool.
You can say J.
So enel whatever else if you like.
I like saying Jason if you want to know more about Jason I've linked this web page that adjacent or
web page and you can see very very quickly here.
It's a lightweight data interchange format.
That's easy for humans to read and write.
OK.
So what does that mean.
Well what Jason does is allow an easy to read format so it just uses that standard Unicode text format.
I think if you read by a wide variety of programs and humans so he's a human.
His machine and his job and all of them can read and write very easily.
To Jason File Jason Voss separate things into keys and values and this is a pair just like in a dictionary.
Right.
So we have key and value.
The key will be unique and the value can be any kind of variable it could be an integer a float a string
will give up.
We can have a raise in square brackets and we have dictionaries.
And I always have trouble with this symbol as curly brackets and we can have an array of dictionaries.
A Dictionary of arrays an array of arrays and so forth will separate the values with commas and each
time it'll be key one with value.
Ketu With value exactly as we've done it which means we can create a Jason file and copy and paste our
stories in.
So here I am an atom which is free.
I am going to link it so you can use that or your Jason files.
To be honest you can do this in any notepad notepad plus any ASCII text writer.
I will look at brandley file.
I am going to call it storis Sizemore stories Storey's dot J S Open.
Here is my entry jesson file.
What goes in it.
Well that's open got.
And as we've said this template here could be cut.
In fact we don't need this variableness to get rid of that variability back into assum and paste and
there is Jason.
All my stories Now in here.
I can even.
Because of the way Jason works formate this little better right it doesn't read whitespace so I can
do this.
I'm going fast for a little and put all my props and their own line just to make it a little easier
to read.
And here we go.
Everything is now in storage.
Jason can say that and back to God for any further.
Let's tidy up a bit in ready.
We're doing multiple things.
We are setting a random story and we're setting some techs.
I don't really like that so I want to make a granny function of got function set by random story because
that's what it does and that feels good.
Animate take these two using ought and down arrow on Windows that I now have set random story.
OK we have a Jason File.
We were going to use the file function to read from.
Let's take a quick look at Firefox and someone to go to classes and type in file and take a look at
it.
We have a file and we grant the description we can see here.
This load thing is very close to what we want.
In fact we can be writing something almost identical to this.
First thing to do is critical action so let's make a function.
We're going to call this get from Jason right.
Pass in there so we can talk without this error message which is confusing.
What does git get from Jason going to get.
Is going to get a file name.
I'm putting the farnam in here because I want to really use this not just with the stories Jason but
with a separate Jason we make later for the other string's things like the introduction things like
Can I have and things like.
Again that's all I mean the Jason File.
If I put this in here I can pass the name of the file I want to get into this function.
I don't have to hard code.
Each one is this function.
First going to do this with a certain variable lowercase file.
Because this is something when you use a couple times this function.
What is that.
That is file with a capital.
So we know it's actually command not new.
Actually make a note here what this is.
Then would you want to take the variable dish made and open it.
So what are we opening where opening a file name and we're going to read it so that's file dot read.
Make sure you've got capitals here.
I made this mistake the second time of I've recorded this video the first time I recorded it.
I did capital R E A D E and I didn't notice the mistake.
You look at the dropdown it's the candles.
So what's going to happen.
We're going to grab the file.
We're going to open it and read it.
What we haven't done is put any error correction in.
There's nothing in here that says This fathers exist.
For now it's not an issue but if it's got bigger that might be something they can know here
that we're assuming that the file exists.
Ok you've read the file but right now looney lips or God rather doesn't know what to do with it.
A file is this what am I reading exactly.
This hieroglyphs is as English as this.
Jason is a C sharp.
Is this a gif.
What kind of file is this.
Let's begin a new thing.
It's a new variable called text.
Because we want to get the file.
Get as text and that's a built in function.
And again you can look at that here and see all of these get as text in all the rest so we can see what
that means.
Now file.
Get as text.
Okay so we're going to get the text.
Were going to read it as a text file but we need to break it down.
It's not just a text file we need God to be able to bring information out of this need to know how to
find it.
So this making new variable called data and that's going to be.
Pass.
Pass means.
Translate or understand.
So I got to read this thing and now understand it as adjacent file.
So let's set that up pass underscored.
Jason.
Text.
It's going to open the file read it.
Know that it's text and then read it as Jason.
So this variable here this data is what we're doing.
So what are we to do.
We need to return it to whatever function called this one.
So we can use return and what are we returning data return on its own.
We'll just close out the function but return data is going to push this variable back to wherever we
came from.
There's one more thing we need to do we need to close this file with opened it.
We need to close it.
Anything that we've got in memory we're not using we should close remember to do this before you return
it's a file dot close.
This is another mistake I made the first time I recorded the video.
I put the files up close after return data doesn't return an error.
It just never happens.
That's how memory leaks can happen right.
You've got things open in memory that you don't know there.
Alright so let's use this brain you get from Jason under set random story.
When a new line variable stories equals get from Jason stories dot j.
So N which is the file we just made.
Now you notice because the story's not Jason.
And this is stories not template.
Template doesn't exist anymore.
This will not work.
So current story calls stories
stories dog size important note.
If you completely remove a variable in God make sure that you've actually removed the instance so that
the current story works exactly as he did before but now it's going to pull this from the Jason variable
rates of VAT.
Now this story's thing and we're setting the current stories as whichever story with pet awesome.
While we're at it make sure you don't do my favourite mistake.
I do this small time.
I've written a brand new function.
I've removed the functionality out of a previous function make call the function.
If I don't call set random story this will never happen which means that when we do can I have a in
all the rest of it when when the script just run.
We actually never get the story.
If I press play now this should work.
Can Have A person's name hand Bill the name of a place are the washing stand a poor often now own the
Nonas.
Can I have an adverb a word ending in Lee's sleep.
Sleazily we go.
Now I'm a hippo.
Dear panda bill.
Look.
It works perfectly and address this and we're randomizing.
We're almost there.
So now I'd like to challenge you to take what you've just done and create a new Jason File called other
strings dot Jason.
And in here create an entry for the introduction text then load that introduction into the ready function.
Now this is a little complicated.
We're adding some moving parts here so don't worry if this gets confusing the give it a shot pause the
video.
See what you can do and when you come back I'll show you my solution.
Welcome back.
Alright first thing I need to do is get into ASM and make a brand new file.
If you're not using atom clearly don't go into atom.
I want to be calling this.
I'm calling this other strings.
Jason and the created dictionary.
Put a random pound sign in there or no sign or hash sign or wherever you're from.
And I want to make a spare key intro text up
until any lips we're going to tell a story and have a wonderful line.
Great.
It's already done.
We can create some more thinks I'm actually going do a few more things.
For extra credit I'm going to put in a prompt.
And let's change the again but then to say again I'm not meant for the complex line just don't not put
the comma on the next line like that.
I'm going to call this again.
Again I mean I could dress this took you mask or try again or once more with feeling whatever I wanted.
Why am I doing this.
Well partly it's best practices but also the nice thing about Jason is that we can start localizing
our game I can have an English one a French one Japanese one whatever we want it so when I want to change
language you could say again in English or girl in French.
It dawned in Japanese you know whilst this is burgundy Japanese whatever we wanted.
Right so if you want to do localization Jason's a great way of doing it.
OK.
We've got this keycorp intro space Texas probably not smart as you in an underscore there save that
and back to God.
Now one quick new variable.
Some call it strings and just make a note of what kind of strings these are all the text that's displayed
to the plane.
There we go.
So strings is going to be my catch all things with the current story and strings.
There's my volleyball right there great.
Okay what's with the wrentham story.
Let's set the strings.
Strings equals get from Jason.
When are we getting what we call the zero that's double check always double check other unschool strings.
And we need that to be a string.
We can't just put it in like that.
There we go.
If you're not sure you can look at the documentation.
We're doing a file open so it's files got come back file to do.
Oh man open takes string part.
Right.
That means this path has to be a string.
You can't just write it as plain plaintext expect it to understand.
No I want the answer to close that.
So we're setting strings as other strings.
Jason awesome.
Now we can wipe all of this into a text and we can say strings intro text.
I've removed the first prompt from this string.
To be honest it shouldn't have been there in the first place so let's do prompt is prompt player and
let's jump down to the prompt play I think so they can you very well.
And I call this next project.
And this is going to be a current story.
Square brackets from that which should be in quotes and that will prompt an end player.
And then this thing play a word sight.
I'm not gonna write that again I'm going to copy it.
Awesome.
The reason I'm doing this is I don't have to have.
Can I have employees built into my script right.
I want these to be separated out from the code.
So now let's reset story text.
Text what's this going to mean that this is going to be strings that variable just made prompt and American
Catholics in next prompt.
And close the bracket.
So we're now going to set the story text as prompt and that you know let's add it to the story so the
story text is now going to add in a prompt with the next prompt.
Can I have a whatever the next prompt is if I'm adding that in there and need to wipe this story at
some point.
So right here when you press the button.
Let's clear the screen
story text not text.
He calls that that.
Well people have pointed out that I could just do not clear that I'll work too but I'm going do it this
way because I like it this way.
Okay is that everything.
No the button OK let's fix this button again best practices strings again.
Is that how we wrote it in the file.
We double check.
Yes it is.
Outstanding.
Now moment of truth let's find out what happens when we play this.
Welcome to Leumi lips.
We're going to tell a story and have a wonderful time.
Can I have a name please.
That's wrong.
Go into my arius.
OK.
I had too many A's prompt.
Can I have that please.
Because that's right.
So let's take a look at this now.
Pressplay.
Welcome to Luni let's we're going to tell a story.
Have a wonderful time.
Can I have a noun please.
Pick an adjective cuddly another noun to can.
Yet another noun a microphone.
I'm just looking around my desk at this point.
An adjective confusing one.
More now on web cam.
First up the Super Bowl.
Is it Tate the ultimate pizza recipe makes one packet of pig with grease being spoonfuls of flour spoonfuls.
Need the dough etc. etc. And there's the again now.
The best bit is if I close this.
And change again to Gore Pressplay.
Look at that.
We've now separated all these words from the tax on change they're back to again because Ben doesn't
speak French until confuse him.
And it looks like we're done quite a lot of stuff in this video.
But in this video we've looked at the awesome power of Jason and looks at how to load and pass text.
Now this might feel like a lot of work but you can use this for safe games you can use as for dialogue
trees you can use as for item description.
It's a really good habit you cold goes in the code.
Text goes in the text.
Excellent work.
So great stuff.
Well done for flying so far.
Share your Jason of stories if you want to.
Let's get these huge jasons so people could play others games and folks are seeing on the next video.